TASK 4:

PART A:

THE THOUGHT PROCESS:

It might seem at first that using unlimited number of actuators might be of great help in the precise movements of the surface but on closer inspection one would find out that on increasing the number of a actuators, till one point the degree of freedom of the system would be increasing, which will help the robot have more precise and effective movements but after a certain point a big difficulty would arise as perfectly coordinating large number of actuators to get the desired angle/tilt of the platform would become a hassle and would be very difficult and time-memory extensive, hence slowing down the response time, thus immediately losing the crux of the robot's ability and ultimately the ball would be difficult to balance. Hence I propose a model where there wouldn't be too less or too much of the actuators.

Another question arises on what type of actuators to use: Rotary or linear. But this is not much of a problem as even linear actuators at their core are just rotary actuators with additional mechanism to convert the rotary motion in linear motion with the help of rack and pinion gears and belts and pulleys.

Another point to be noted is that as the movement changes of the platform have to be very quick, sudden changes by the actuators may result in jerk or vibration production in the platform , which may hinder the inverse kinematic motion calculations and would lead to miscalculation of the amount of tilt required. This challenge is overcame by using air bladders/cushions. They are essentially kind of lubricants or suspension systems of the robo. Air bladders can act like an adaptive suspension system, they can inflate or deflate to adjust the robo's height or posture, helping it regain balance. It would provide smooth and flexible adjustments in the robo's stance, as opposed to traditional rigid mechanisms like motors or springs. It will allow for quick adjustments to the robo's height or posture. This helps maintain the robo's balance even when it encounters unexpected disturbances like external forces or uneven terrain.

There can be many options to choose for geometry of platform but we will be using 

THE DESIGN:

The platform would be circular in shape with three support arms on the circumference at 120 degrees each, along with an actuator at the centre. All the actuator are connected at the bottom to the base. Between actuator and platform air bladders are attached for smoother movement. Connected to the base, at the top would be a camera which will help record the position of the ball using computer vision. Computer vision uses machine learning model to identify and distinguish the ball from its surrounding. The basic theory of the ball balancing robot is that we need to move the ball from its current coordinate to the center of the platform. Another reason why I chose a circular platform is that instead of writing coordinates in x and y it can be written in polar coordinates r and theta, which will be easier to solve. Now, using the coded inverse kinematics equations we calculate by how much each actuator should move to tilt the platform by just the right amount. The actuator in the center helps in moving the platform up and down, hence adding another degree of freedom to the platform. By increasing the DOF, additional precise control over the ball is gained. Pros of the improvement added include higher stability, precise control and movement in all directions, whereas major roadblocks include high cost due to having high quality sensors, increased complexity to code due to added actuators, and more power required.

